ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR

--INTRODUCTION--
The Andaman and Nicobar Islands, located in the east of the Indian mainland geographically, float in splendid isolation in the Bay of Bengal. Once a hill range extending from Myanmar to Indonesia, these picturesque undulating islands, islets numbering around 572, are covered with dense rain-fed, damp and evergreen forests and endless varieties of exotic flora and fauna. Most of these islands (about 550) are in the Andaman Group, 28 of which are inhabited. The smaller Nicobars, comprise some 22 main islands (10 inhabited). The Andaman and Nicobars are separated by the Ten Degree Channel which is 150 Kms. wide.

--CLIMATE AND GEOGRAPHY--
The islands have a tropical climate. The South-west Monsoon sets in Andaman Nicobar islands towards the end of May and the North-east Monsoon in November. There is no fury of hot summer, no chilling winter, no water clogging or traffic jams. For those who want to enjoy boating, swimming, snorkeling, sightseeing all 12 months is season. North Indians find relief from burning heat and chilling winter if they visit the island from May/June/July and in December/January. Season for nature lovers is May to December when forest is lush green and waterfalls are at their prime. Divers can enjoy the best during December to April and bird watchers during winter times.

Normal rainfall at Port Blair : 3900 mm
Mean Minimum Temperature : 23.2° C
Mean Maximum Temperature : 25° C
Mean relative Humidity : 80 %

--PORT BLAIR - THE CAPITAL OF ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS--
Port Blair is the capital of the Union Territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Port Blair is the gateway to the pristine islands. Port Blair, an Island town offering water-based activities like snorkeling, scuba diving, sea-cruises, and glimpses of the history and culture of the region. The Aberdeen Bazaar forms the centre of the town.

--HISTORY--
The Andaman & Nicobar Islands have been inhabited for several thousand years, at the very least. The earlier archaeological evidence yet documented goes back some 2,200 years; however, the indications from genetic, cultural and linguistic isolation studies point to habitation going back 30,000 – 60,000 years, well into the Middle Palaeolithic. In the Andaman Islands, the various Andamanese people maintained their separated existence through the vast majority of this time, diversifying into distinct linguistic, cultural and territorial groups.

--Best Time To Visit Andaman Islands--
Andaman has a moderate temperature all through the year within the range of 23°C to 31°C. It has a tropical climate. There are no severe climate conditions except for tropical storms and rains in late summers and monsoons.
Summers (March to May) are warm but pleasant with sea breeze and have humidity level about 80%. It is suitable for all kinds of tourist activities.
Monsoon season is also recommended for visit to Andaman & Nicobar Islands as tourist can have more options both indoors and outdoors. There is no water clogging or traffic jams.

-----------tourist places-----------

1.--NEIL ISLAND--
Known for its magnificent biodiversity, unexplored coral reefs, white sandy beaches, and tropical woodlands, Neil Island is perfect for a peaceful time off.

-------------------------HIGHLIGHTS-----------------------------------------
Neil Island 3 Point Tour----------
Neil Island is known for its natural wonders, especially the beaches. A trip to three such beaches (including one with a natural bridge) is commonly called the 3 point tour. One starts with visiting either the natural rock formation or the Bharatpur beach, moves on to the next point and then ends the day with a view of the sun dipping down at the gorgeous Lakshmanpur beach.This is commonly perfect for those who are spending a day in Neil Island. This is sometimes combined with the sunrise beach aka the Sitapur Beach. 

Lazy Beach time ----
Life in Neil feels slower and more relaxed, especially when all you are doing is spending time sunbathing, reading, or just lying on the beach. Bharatpur beach and Ramnagar beach are perfect spots for this.

---------------------------------------IMPORTANT INFORMATION-------------------------------------
..Weather
Neil mainly has three main seasons: summer, winter, and monsoon. Owing to its location in the Bay of Bengal, it experiences heavy winds during the monsoon and a tropical climate otherwise. Early November until mid-May sees the best weather in the islands.

..Currency
Like the rest of the island in Andaman, the Indian Rupee is the currency used. Neil has only two ATMs, (As on 20/4/2017) both at the bazaar – Syndicate Bank and Cooperative Bank. Both also have a branch each, however, no money exchange takes place here. Some small resort owners do accept foreign currency especially in emergency situations and later exchange this in Port Blair.

..Communication and Internet
No broadband connection is available in Neil Island. Data network is available on phone sometimes but is patchy. BSNL is the network with the best connectivity.

..Healthcare
Neil only has a primary healthcare centre. All services here are free of charge. For any specialty healthcare, one must travel to Port Blair.Primary Health Centre & Ambulance Service: 03192-282627

..Safety
The Andaman and Nicobar Police is the law enforcement agency for the union territory of Andaman and they take care of the discipline department is an efficient one and in the case of emergencies you can get in touch with them on the following numbers:

..Police Station: 03192-282602
..Police Radio: 03192-282676
..Supermarkets and Bazaars
Neil has a small, humble market, made up of small shops selling all essential commodities. From stationary to common medicines, simple clothing to grocery, everything is available here. What is best available though are the fresh fruits and vegetables. In fact, Port Blair gets most of its fruits and vegetables from Neil.This market is also the place for social gatherings and meetings. This is the busiest part of the town in the evening. One can enjoy the local chatty culture here.

..Language
Though Hindi is the most commonly spoken language here, it is also Bengali that is spoken at large in Neil Island. English is understood but with difficulty.

..Airport and Port Facilities
The jetty at Bharatpur Beach is the only jetty on the islands and this is where all private and government ships dock.



2.--PORT BLAIR--

----------------------HIGHLIGHTS--------------------------------
1. Cellular Jail
It has been an important historical part of Port Blair. Notable freedom fighters such as Veer Savarkar, Yogendra Shukla, Batukeshwar Dutt, and Babarao Savarkar were some of the inmates here. Don’t miss the light and sound show(Monday, Wednesday and Friday) when you visit Cellular jail. 
Cost of Admission: Rs 30, Photo Camera: Rs 25, Video Camera: Rs 100
Timings: 9 AM to 1 PM and 2 PM to 4 PM
Light and sound show: Rs 50
Timings: 5.15 PM, 6.20 PM, 7.25 PM AND 8.30 PM.

2. Corbyn’s Cove
Surrounded by lush green palms, this happens to be one of the busier beaches in the Andamans. It’s located right outside of Port Blair about 8 km. The drive there itself is a scenic treat to the eyes. 
 Many entertainment options like jetski and other water activities make it a popular destination amongst tourists. Enjoy a relaxing drink with your friends at the beach facing the cafe when you are here.

3. Samudrika Naval marine museum
This museum is a perfect blend of historical and modern Andaman. A massive blue whale, in its skeletal form, of course, greets you as you enter the museum. There is also an aquarium with fish of all shapes and sizes, from a parrotfish to the rare and venomous species of stonefish and corals. Do stop by the gift shop on your way back to get some souvenirs back home for your loved ones

4. Dinner cruise
TSG Bella Bay hosts a beautiful and luxurious dinner cruise which departs every evening from the Junglighat jetty. If you are looking for a fun evening with some live music and a DJ with your loved ones or a special someone, we recommend this to be one of the best things in Port Blair. Cool evening sea breeze greets you while you listen to the Nicobar band play live music, right under the stars. The buffet dinner costs around 2999 per person and you take away memories of a lifetime. 

5. Water sports and boat rides
Go parasailing at Water sports complex, organized by Coral Safari between 11 AM-4 PM. Cost per person is around 3000 and the duration is 30 minutes(3 minutes airborne). Port Blair also offers Glass Bottom Boat Ride by Andaman Dolphin which is a luxury speed boat, especially for families. This ride lets you come face-to-face with the marine world without having to enter the water at all.





-------------------Important Information:------------------------------------

..Weather: Port Blair mainly has three main seasons: summer(24-37 degrees, tropical winter(22-30 degrees), and monsoon. Owing to its location in the Bay of Bengal, it experiences heavy winds during the monsoon and a tropical climate otherwise. Early November until mid-May sees the best weather in the islands. Port Blair being situated at a slightly elevated area, experiences a slightly lower temperature (by a degree or so) as compared to the other islands.
..Currency: Like the rest of the island in Andaman, the Indian Rupee is the currency used. Port Blair has the most number of ATM’s and institutions (Banks and private companies). Exchanging currency and withdrawing money is thus most convenient in Port Blair.
..Centres for currency exchange:
State Bank Of India – Fill up a form and show your passport. The currency exchange rates are decided by the RBI
..Island Tours and Travels – 5% above the exchange rate is charged. The advantage is you get to skip the queue.
..Communication and Internet: Satellite broadband powers Internet connections in Port Blair. Since Optical fibre cables have not arrived here yet, the Internet is a slow and expensive luxury in the islands. Many cafes, restaurants, and hotels do provide WiFi facility but this is often disrupted or extremely slow. As phone connectivity, BSNL and Vodafone are the two most reliable service providers. If you are looking to invest in a local number, buy a BSNL sim card (available in Port Blair and Havelock mostly)
..Healthcare: Government Hospitals in the Andaman Islands provide free healthcare for all. Head to the G. B. Pant Hospital (03192 0 232102) for any treatment and medicines. Port Blair also has a couple of private medical centres that are often less crowded and best for speciality care, Apollo Clinic (03192 – 233550) and Chakroborty Hospital (9932084868) are best known in the island.
..Safety: The Andaman and Nicobar Police is the law enforcement agency for the union territory of Andaman and they take care of the discipline department is an efficient one and in a case of emergency you can get in touch with them on the following numbers:
..Police: 100 (24×7) Toll-Free
..Fire Control: 101 Toll-Free
..Women in Distress: 1091, 1144
..Supermarkets and Bazaars: Port Blair has the maximum and most developed markets and bazaars. Though not very fancy, all necessary items are available:
..Fruits and vegetables: The Sunday market (5 am to 12 pm) that lines the junglighat jetty is the best place to shop for fresh fruits and vegetables. Else, fruit and vegetable shops are situated on the Gandhi Market. They are open on all days.
Hardware, electronics, groceries, and spices: The Ratnam market is a cluster of small wholesale and retail shops.
Large departmental stores: These are the most comfortable and modern way of shopping in Port Blair. You will find everything from cosmetics to medicines and packed food to milk, bread and other daily necessities here. Mubarak hypermarket (03192 244 245) is the best-known supermarket.
..Clothing and apparels: Most clothing shops are owned by the locals in Port Blair; Goenkas (9734482382) being the most famous of the lot. Some branded clothing shops like FabIndia and Raymonds have also now opened outlets in Port Blair.
..Language: Port Blair is the melting pot of many religions, cultures, and linguistic groups and like the rest of the country Hindi, Bengali and Tamil are the most commonly spoken languages here. English comes next in line. If you know either English or Hindi – getting around in Port Blair should not be a problem.
..Airport and Port Facilities: Port Blair is home to the only airport of the islands – the Veer Savarkar International Airport (03192 – 235619). Direct flights to/fro Chennai, Kolkata, Delhi, Bhubaneswar, and Bangalore (on and off) are available.Port Blair has 3 main Ports aka jetties:
Phoenix Bay Jetty (03192 – 245555) – connects Port Blair to Havelock, Neil, and Rangat. All private ferries leave from here.
Aberdeen Jetty connects Port Blair to Ross Island, North Bay beach, and Viper Island.
Haddo Jetty connects Port Blair to long-distance islands like little Andaman and Nicobar.

3.Havelock Island(Swaraj Dweep)
(The Jewel of the Andaman Islands)

-------------------------------------------HIGHLIGHTS------------------------------------------
..KAYAKING-
 Kayak your way through the beautiful mangrove forests, one can also club kayaking with snorkelling or take a night kayaking tour. One doesn’t have to be a swimming expert, any beginner can enjoy this fun activity. We recommend Kayaking with a certified instructor, Tanaz for a fun-filled experience. This activity costs around INR 3000 onwards. 

..Candlelight dinner-
 Treat your loved one with a romantic candlelight dinner under the stars. Havelock Island beach resort, wild orchid resort, Munjoh resort offer a magical candlelight dinner experience.     

..SCUBA DIVING-
Havelock Island is very well known for its scuba diving experience with the best infrastructure. Andamans is one of the best spots for Scuba Diving. For an amazing experience.

..ELEPHANT BEACH-
 This place is a shallow water haven for snorkelers. All thanks to an impressive number of Scuba divers who have educated the locals on the importance of reef conservation, the reefs here are increasing, unlike most islands where reefs are drastically decreasing. One can reach here either by a speedboat ride or by a short 1.8 km trek through the beautiful mangrove forest to reach Elephanta beach. 

..GAME FISHING-
 Set off on an exclusive fishing adventure in the great Andaman Sea. Duration of this activity is around 2-4 hours. Cruise along the sea and learn how to fish, right from scratch.

-------------------------------------------INFORMATION-----------------------------------------------

..Currency
Like the rest of the island in Andaman, the Indian Rupee is the currency used. Havelock has two ATM’s:

We recommend you carry cash to the islands

..Communication and Internet
Phones on the BSNL network work best, but Airtel and Vodafone also have towers here. Many cafes offer WiFi facility, but it can be slow and expensive.

..Supermarkets/Bazars
Hi-land Supermarket (Kunju’s supermarket) is the largest one-stop-shop at the market in Village No. 3. Basic supplies can be bought in the bazaar stores – do not forget your tube of insect and mosquito repellent. One can even buy a hammock in the bazaar, beach accessories, and artificial jewellery among others can be found in the souvenir shops.

..Healthcare
Government-run Primary Healthcare Center (PHC) is located at the village No. 3, which has basic treatment facilities and a pharmacy. Special treatment and emergency cases are transferred to Port Blair Hospital.

..Safety
Havelock is arguably one of the safest places in the whole of India. The Andaman and Nicobar Police(ANP) force is an efficient one maintaining a favourable law and order. Bribing an officer on duty is out of the question. 

Please avoid swimming where the beaches are rocky

Please don’t take a flight the same day you dive.


..ANP Havelock number: 03192-282405
..Fire Station Havelock: 03192-282400
..Coastal Security helpline: 1093

..Language
Like elsewhere in India, knowing Hindi and English will get you by in Havelock. Some of the other languages spoken here are Bengali, Telugu, and Tamil.

..Port Facilities
All entry is to the island is reserved and made only through the DSS inter Island Port. (Is this all?)

..Helicopter Service
Government-run Helicopter is available for emergencies and inter-island transportation. The preferences are for Medical emergency followed by other emergencies, VIP transportation, Local islanders transportation and the least preference for general tourists

..Cost in Havelock Island(Swaraj Dweep)
There are 4 main costs that one incurs in Havelock:

..Accommodation 
Basic accommodation costs around Rs.1000 per night.

Mid Range accommodation costs around Rs.3000

Premium accommodation can cost anywhere between Rs.15000-30000. 


4.Baratang Island
(Entry to North Andaman)